---
title: "And the Leaves Came Tumbling Down"
tags: projects music compilations bruce
excerpt: "Fall 1980/1984 compilation"
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/img/blog/2020-11-01-leaves/header.jpg
  teaser: /assets/img/blog/2020-11-01-leaves/header.jpg
---

{% include video id="JM2e3TEiW0s" provider="youtube" %}

## Info
This has been probably one of the worst years in recent memory, for everyone really. I am in my second year of Community College and face the very real possibility that I may never set foot on it's campus as a student ever again.

Since March 2020, The whole world has been shut down due to the Coronavirus pandemic. That was the last time I saw any of my friends in person. And everyone has been stuck at home since then.

Before the pandemic 'really' started, I created 'Two Lanes, Two Hearts' after being inspired to make my own live compilation after listening to "The Turnpike is Closed, Nobody Goes Home" in the last week of February. Around a month later, I made "Nights at the Boston Music Hall", A compilation of the 4 night stand at the titular Music Hall, combining the 4 shows into 1 'ideal' show. Back then, there was the hope that we'd be out of this for the Fall. I could go to school in person again, and see everyone.

And here we are, Fall 2020, the start of my second year as a college student, and my first semester largely teaching myself from home. I usually work while listening to music, that has been a constant since at least middle school. This time around, it's been bootlegs. Mostly River shows, since 2020 is the 40th anniversary of the album and tour. And some Born in the USA shows for anniversaries.

I started getting the idea for another compilation. It started as a purely Fall 1984 compilation, but there were certain songs I wanted, Ones that weren't played during that leg of the tour, (or at all during the tour). So I took those from 'That Old 80's Sound.'.

I really liked the 'Nebraska' suite that was commonplace in the Summer/Fall of 1984. So I made sure to have that. The suite I'm most proud of is the 'love' suite. The River - I Wanna Marry You - Wreck on the Highway - Racing in the Street - Stolen Car - Drive All Night. It's a great concept and is even better in execution. It really feels like those songs were meant to be together in that order, maybe even about the same 2 people.

This compilation also takes the record for least amount of time needed to make. TLTH took around 3 months to fully finish. Nights at the Boston Music Hall was about a week or 2 between mixing and artwork. "...And the Leaves..." took me 3 days for everything. Seriously. I started this on November 1st, gave it a first listen on the 2nd, took notes and refined it. Gave it a last listen today on the 3rd, and finished the artwork.

I do hope you enjoy this.
Lilbud (November 2020)

## Tracklist
- Born In The U.S.A (10/21/84)
- Prove It All Night (10/24/80)
- Tenth Avenue Freeze-Out (10/24/80)
- Darkness on the Edge of Town (10/24/80)
- Atlantic City (10/21/84)
- Johnny 99 (10/21/84)
- Nebraska (10/22/84)
- Highway Patrolman (10/22/84)
- Reason to Believe (10/21/84)
- Mansion on the Hill (10/21/84)
- My Fathers House (10/31/84)
- Shut Out The Light (10/22/84)
- Johnny Bye-Bye (11/04/84)
- The Promised Land (10/24/80)
- My Hometown (10/21/84)
- Badlands (11/08/84)
- Thunder Road (10/24/80)
- The River (10/24/80)
- I Wanna Marry You (10/24/80)
- Wreck on the Highway (10/24/80)
- Racing In The Street (11/19/84)
- Stolen Car (10/24/80)
- Drive All Night (10/24/80)
- Downbound Train (10/21/84)
- Rosalita (Come Out Tonight) (10/24/80)
- Jungleland (10/21/84)
- Born to Run (11/19/84)
- Detroit Medley (11/19/84)
- Twist and Shout - Kansas City (11/19/84)
- Santa Claus Is Comin' To Town (11/19/84)