---
title: "The Boss Comes Home"
tags: projects music compilations bruce
excerpt: "Focusing on the 3 night run at the Capitol Theater in Sept. 1978 (Released June 2022)"
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/img/blog/2022-06-02-passaic/header.jpg
  teaser: /assets/img/blog/2022-06-02-passaic/header.jpg
---

{% include video id="0KcWrALE3VE" provider="youtube" %}

## Info
This compilation started by just screwing around. Same idea as my previous ones (Nights at the Boston Music Hall and Nassau Nights). Taking a multi-night run of concerts and combining them into a single show. Every song from all the nights combined. The majority comes from 9/19/78 as it is my favorite, and it is a very kickass show. Plus many songs run right into one another and it is difficult to break them up without awkward fade outs. Some could be bypassed with creative segues but for the most part it was easier to drop full sequences into the mix.

The art is the first time I've used Adobe Illustrator for a cover. It started out in Photoshop but then I decided to switch over to Illustrator primarily to keep the different covers the same in terms of asset placement. Fun Fact: tracing the poster nearly crashed Illustrator. Which I did purely to save on filesize with the various covers, as the photoshop covers would be 6mb in size, as opposed to 700kb exported out of Illustrator.

The poster is by Arlen Schumer, who created it for the original show back in 1978. I enjoyed designing the cover to look similar to the poster. One of these days I will own a copy of said poster for my wall.

Included is a square digital cover, as well as art for a 4 disc jewel "chubby" jewel case. I made some art for paper cd sleeves but they didn't turn out that good (plus would also require me to make a template for some kind of box for the cd sleeves and thats too much work).

Enjoy!
Lilbud (June 2nd, 2022)


## Tracklist
### Disc 1
Badlands (9/19)
Streets of Fire (9/19)
High School Confidential (9/21)
Spirit in the Night (9/21)
Darkness on the Edge of Town (9/19)
Sweet Little Sixteen (9/21)
Independence Day (9/19)
Promised Land (9/19)
It's My Life (9/20)
Prove It All Night (9/19)
Racing in the Street (9/19)
Thunder Road (9/19)

### Disc 2
Meeting Across the River (9/19)
Jungleland (9/19)
Good Rockin Tonight (9/20)
Kitty's Back (9/19)
Fire (9/19)
Candy's Room (9/19)
Not Fade Away (9/19)
She's the One (9/19)
Backstreets/Sad Eyes (9/19)
Because the Night (9/20)

### Disc 3
Point Blank (9/20)
Santa Claus is Coming to Town (9/21)
The Fever (9/21)
Incident on 57th Street (9/21)
Rosalita (Come Out Tonight) (9/21)
4th of July, Asbury Park (Sandy) (9/19)

### Disc 4
Born to Run (9/19)
Tenth Avenue Freeze-Out (9/19)
Detroit Medley (9/19)
Raise Your Hand (9/19)
Twist and Shout (9/20)
Quarter to Three (9/21)