---
title: "Databruce 1.1.1 Update"
tags: projects databruce
excerpt: "Minor DB update with no exciting changes"
header:
  actions:
    - label: "Databruce"
      url: "https://databruce.com"
---
Welcome back I guess

This update is a few things, mostly some fixes as well as some upgrades. These smaller updates won't have as long of a post, and will likely just be short notes on what changed. Bigger changes (if there are any) will be covered in a longer (possibly dedicated) post.

Changes:
- Fixed "Updates" page showing blank descriptions
- Advanced Search Updates:
	- Should be slightly faster due to changes in form handling
	- At least one field is required to be filled in, otherwise you will be redirected back to the form and a message will show.
- Home Page now shows "featured show" instead of most recent. While sometimes it *might* show the most recent, other times it will feature a show of my choosing. Right now it is showing Turku 2013, as that is the latest Nugs archive
- Certain tables were not responsive, namely those on the user profile page. These are fixed now
- Profile page updated to hide the "remove show" button. I plan to revisit this in the future and add a confirmation popup.
- On small screens, "child rows" are now visible by default, rather than requiring clicking/tapping the row to show the child row.

I've also updated several things on the backend. This will be completely unnoticeable. Unless I unintentionally broke something, in which case it *will* be noticeable and you should let me know ASAP.