---
title: "Databruce 1.16 Update"
tags: projects databruce
excerpt: "All changes to Databruce in May/June 2026"
header:
  actions:
    - label: "Databruce"
      url: "https://databruce.com"
---

If you couldn't tell, May was a busy month here.

After the last Databruce update in April, I dedicated the rest of April and pretty much all of May to finally finishing the E Street Shuffle archive site. I wrote up a piece on [all that was involved with that](https://lilbud.github.io/2026/05/30/shuffle-archive/). After that went live on May 31st, and that it didn't burn down, I was able to cross that off my list and get back to my other projects.

This Databruce update really didn't start as much, and I was actually expecting to get it out sooner, maybe even for the first anniversary on June 10. However, for those who are new here, things tend to snowball. I'll inevitably come up with some "that's just crazy enough to work" idea and figure out how to add it, usually after declaring that it can't be done for whatever reason. It's a blessing and a curse.

Full Changelog for June:

```text
- 1 Year of Databruce!, Site first went public on June 10, 2025 in beta, and July fully public.
- [Song Detail] Fixed year stats bar chart not scaling properly with window
- [Song Detail] Updated layout of position cards, text now wraps
- [Event Detail] Adjusted event table column widths
- [User Profile] Added info row cards to user profile, removed from navigation buttons. Counts are done in views instead of tied to datatables
- [Event Detail] Added user list on hover to attended button
- [Adv. Search] Fixed advanced search control spacing on mobile being busted
- [General] General code cleanup, removed some unnecessary code to reduce queries
- [User Profile] Added "change password" section
- [User Profile] Added "discord name" to user profiles. Can be used in conjunction with Brucebot to display your own stats or another users stats.
- [Event Detail] Updated setlist positions. Originally had them set semi-automatically, but found it was too much of a mess. With many positions being wrong (marking show opener/closer when Bruce only appeared for 2 songs mid-set). These are now set manually.
- [Event Detail] Added "Event Info" card. Extended info about event that doesn't fit in header. Currently it is a current event num/total for tour, leg, and venue. More will likely be added eventually.
- [General] Fixed spacing on navbar login button
- Add custom 404 page.
- Add custom 500 page, also has link to contact and email if needed.
- [Events] Fix issue where the "year" filter accepted any value rather than complete years.
- [Venues] Fixed venue name/detail being wrong way around on many venues
- [Venue Detail] Moved address to map tab
- [Venue Detail] Added "Same Address As" to note card, lists venues at the same physical location.
- [Venues] Added "child venues". Venues that are all at the same "location" (like studios at Rockerfeller Plaza, or different places on a college campus like Monmouth).
- [Venue Detail] Events are now listed for that venue AND any child venues.
```

# 1 Year of Databruce

Before covering any changes, I want to first acknowledge that it has been 1 year since Databruce first went live. On June 10, 2025, I opened the site to a small group of testers on Discord to get feedback and to make sure my first attempt at a project of this scale didn't combust spectacularly. The site went "public" on July 11th, which was only still in Discord. In October 2025 and April 2026 I announced the site on GreasyLake and StonePonyLondon respectively.

It's been a year, and aside from some slight hiccups here and there, the site hasn't combusted yet. Which for my first actual attempt at a project on this scale, I think is pretty good.

Now for some numbers:

- 108 active users
- 453 commits to the source repository
- 706 shows seen logged by users
- 17 major updates (not counting beta)

A big thanks to everyone who has checked out the site, especially to those who've made an account. It means a lot.

I suppose now I'd probably have something big to announce to commemorate the anniversary. This also assumes that I plan any of this shit in advance. I do have a few ideas for future updates/additions, but since none of them are really fleshed out, they won't be mentioned just yet.

# User Profile Changes

This month's update saw a number of changes to user profiles, although only two will be covered here.

## Added Stat Cards

{% include figure popup=true img1="/assets/img/blog/2026-06-14-databruce-1.17/profile.jpg" alt="User Profile Cards" caption="A bit nicer looking than badges." %}

I had these on the release detail page, and added them to the user profile as well. These replace the "badges" on the tab buttons, which don't work exactly like I want. Other pages will probably switch over to the cards in due time as they look nicer.

## Discord Integration

{% include figure popup=true img1="/assets/img/blog/2026-06-14-databruce-1.17/discord.png" alt="Discord embed showing stats" caption="Lookup anyone's stats at a moments notice" %}

(This is more of a Brucebot update but I'm not writing another blog post this month).

You can now add your Discord username to Databruce and view your own/other users stats from Discord using Brucebot. This was one of those ideas that came together real quickly, and I thought it would be a neat addition.

The feature does require adding your Discord username to the new field on your User Profile settings. The lookup *can* be done with just your Databruce username, but using the Discord one will probably be easier in the long run.

## A Note About Emails

TLDR: Update your email to an real one

While you're adding your Discord name to your profile, you should probably make sure your email is right. The first batch of 10 or so beta testers had a "dummy" email set while I was still working out the kinks.

However, there are a few downsides to this. If you forget your password, you can't reset it since the email will never reach you. Same goes for if you ever need to contact the admin team, or if we need to contact you.

I've also been kicking around the idea of an email newsletter, mostly as a way to let people know about site updates/changes, and to reach people if it is ever needed. I might even consider some kind of "This week in Bruce history" email as well depending on if that is something people might want.

# Search Updates

From basically the beginning of the site's existence until now, the site navbar has had a "event search" bar for quickly looking up events by date. This was ripped straight from Jerrybase as I liked it and found it more useful than say a Google search bar.

Although this update completely changes the site search for the better.

{% include figurehalf img1="/assets/img/blog/2026-06-14-databruce-1.17/search-boston.png" img2="/assets/img/blog/2026-06-14-databruce-1.17/search-big.png" alt="" caption="More indepth searching" %}

The search bar is now a popup modal, and allows for more than just dates to be used as search queries. It is now a proper search field. Events can still be found by date, but additional qualifiers can be added. Events can be found by city and month/year now, as well as "early/late" shows as well.

It isn't perfect and while I've tested it a good bit, I can't try everything. Some queries might not be specific enough and will require a bit of tweaking. But overall I think this is a major upgrade.

# Event Detail Changes

The event detail page saw a bunch of smaller tweaks this month, mostly to do with making the mobile experience less of a pain.

Also added a new "event info" card, which will be for extra info that can't be put in the header. Stuff like what show on a tour or at a venue a show is. Might add some other stuff later on, and having a spot for it will be a benefit later. Not everything can be written as a note or stuck in the header.

{% include figure popup=true img1="/assets/img/blog/2026-06-14-databruce-1.17/event_info.png" alt="Event Info" caption="This might expand later, I dunno" %}

Also worth mentioning is that the "attended" button now shows a list of users present on hover.

{% include figure popup=true img1="/assets/img/blog/2026-06-14-databruce-1.17/user_list.png" alt="List of users at Berlin 2025" caption="This is the most attended show on the site" %}

# Venue Changes

{% include figure popup=true img1="/assets/img/blog/2026-06-14-databruce-1.17/monmouth.jpg" alt="User Profile Cards" caption="A bit nicer looking than badges." %}

A big change this month has to do with the addition of "child venues".

While most venues are standalone, some venues share a common location. Like studios in Rockefeller Plaza (where many NBC shows film), or college campuses like Monmouth (where Bruce has played a number of times at different spots on campus).

Venues have been grouped in this way, assigning some as "children" of larger venues. These will show up on the venue detail page, and are included in the tallies. The event table will also show all events for both the larger venue AND the child venues as well.

This also comes with many venues having their name/detail fields swapped. Many venues had the larger location as the name and the smaller as detail (University > Gymnasium) when it should be the other way around (Gymnasium > University).

The addition of this should organize things a little nicer.

# Conclusion

Overall a smaller update that came together mostly last minute. But I wanted to get back into the swing of things after taking May off. Update posts will continue monthly as long as I have enough to talk about. Although some months may be missed even if updates are ongoing. It just depends.

Thanks for reading,
Brian (June 14, 2026)
